---
title: Recon 101 - Beginner
date: 2023-09-16 05:00:00 +0800
categories: [Red Team, Reconnaissance]
tags: [Recon, Red Team]     ## TAG names should always be lowercase
description: Covers both passive and active reconnaissance techniques, providing a comprehensive guide for collecting information about the target organization.
---

> **Target Information:**
> 
> - Company Name
> - Domain
> - IP Range

---

## 1. Passive Reconnaissance

> **Open Source Intelligence (OSINT):**
> 
> - Tools : Netlas, Shodan, Censys, Maltego, theHarvester, Recon-ng
> - Techniques
>     - **Google Dorking**: Use advanced search operators to find sensitive information.
>     - **Social Media Analysis**: Gather information from LinkedIn, Twitter, and Facebook.
>     - **Public Databases**: Search for information in public databases such as EDGAR, public records, and industry databases.

> **DNS Reconnaissance:**
> 
> - Tools : DNSdumpster, Fierce, DNSRecon, Sublist3r, Amass, Subfinder
> - Techniques
>     - **Domain and Subdomain Enumeration**: Identify all domains and subdomains associated with the target.
>     - **WHOIS Lookup**: Obtain registration information for the target’s domain.

> **Website Analysis:**
> 
> - Tools : Wappalyzer, Builtwith, WhatWeb, Burpsuite
> - Techniques
>     - **Identify Web Technologies**: Determine the technologies used by the target’s website (e.g., CMS, frameworks).
>     - **Sitemap Analysis**: Review the sitemap to understand the website structure.
>     - **Analyze robots.txt**: Identify areas of the website that the target does not want to be indexed by search engines.

> **Network Reconnaissance:**
> 
> - Tools : Shodan, Censys
> - Techniques
>     - **Open Ports and Services**: Identify open ports and services running on the target’s network.
>     - **Network Range Identification**: Determine the range of IP addresses used by the target.

---

## 2. Active Reconnaissance

> **Network Scanning:**
> 
> - Tools : Nmap, Masscan, Angry IP Scanner
> - Techniques
>     - **IP Range Scanning:** Scan IP addresses in any range and their ports
>     - **Port Scanning**: Identify open ports on the target’s systems.
>     - **Service Version Detection**: Determine the versions of services running on open ports.
>     - **OS Fingerprinting**: Identify the operating systems running on target systems.

> **Vulnerability Scanning:**
> 
> - Tools : Nessus, OpenVAS, Nexpose
> - Techniques
>     - **Automated Vulnerability Scanning**: Use tools to scan for known vulnerabilities.
>     - **Manual Verification**: Verify findings from automated scans manually.

> **Social Engineering:**
> 
> - Techniques
>     - **Phishing Emails**: Send phishing emails to gather credentials or deliver payloads.
>     - **Pretext Calls**: Call employees under a pretext to gather information.
>     - **Physical Reconnaissance**: Visit the target’s physical location to gather information.

> **Wireless Reconnaissance:**
> 
> - Techniques
>     - **Identify Wireless Networks**: Detect wireless networks in the vicinity of the target.
>     - **Capture and Analyze Traffic**: Capture wireless traffic for analysis.